if you recall in the last movie you
created a series of controllers for the
spine to refresh your memory the
instructions were such that you were
asked to freeze the transforms on the
various shapes and then you were asked
to link the spine controllers to the
main hip controller this was done on
purpose to demonstrate a potentially
important problem if you freeze
transforms first and then establish
hierarchical links you will encounter
problems when you transform objects back
to zero again select the four blue spine
controllers and transform them back to
zero notice how they jump up in Z in
fact by exactly double the distance the
main hip controller is from the ground
this happens because of how the
hierarchical linkage was evaluated after
the freeze transforms press ctrl Z to
undo the operation the trick then is to
create the hierarchy first and then
freeze the transforms this way when you
transform back to zero everything would
work as expected unfortunately you won't
always remember to do that in the proper
order in some cases as it is at this
point you can make the necessary
Corrections this means that after
ensuring the hierarchical links are in
place you can freeze the transforms one
more time this ensures freeze transforms
is valuated on an already established
hierarchy unfortunately if you've
already added wiring and expressions to
the system freezing transforms again
will void all that hard work in that
case you may want to consider position
constraints let's simulate the problem
one more time with the four blue spine
controllers selected click the unlink
button on the main toolbar freeze the
transforms again
and then link the selection one more
time to the main hip controller now
we're back to square one with the
problem shown earlier let's imagine
you've already made a fair share of work
on this that you don't want to lose it
by using freeze transforms again in that
case unlink the selection and then use
position constraint to constrain the
selection to the main hip controller
this relocates some of the controllers
you just have to select them
individually and adjust their offset
status in the motion panel certainly
need to relocate the neck and the head
shape but the hip and spine based shapes
already in the right place mind you it
won't hurt to retain their original
offset either if you test it out now and
transform the controller's back to zero
you'll notice that everything will work
as expected in the next movie you start
rigging the spine
you